Let's talk about section D
which is sector and stock drivers.
So basically, this here will tell you
what makes a stock move.
And some of it is prepopulated for you
meaning the yellow cells
and the other ones you have to enter yourself.
And I actually want you to go ahead and do this
with all of your stocks and commodities and bonds
and real estate investments, trust investments
that you'll add to this dashboard.
I want you to do this because I want you to understand
what makes those go up or down.
And so, yellow means it's already been calculated for you.
And what this is doing is if the stock is in the S&P 500
which means these ones here and not the ETFs,
then what I've done is I've created logic here
so that it'll tell you what is the primary driver
for a stock meaning the catalyst,
meaning what makes it go up or down.
And it's not perfect
but I just want you to kind of understand
that there's usually one or two things
that makes every stock moves.
And so for Apple, it's product cycle.
In fact, for any thing that's information technology,
I'll highlight all them here.
It's product cycle based.
Okay and you can see they're all IT here, okay.
If it's industrials like General Electric,
it's usually healthy gross domestic product growth.
And we'll talk about GDPs soon.
But all you gotta know about GDP is
GDP is basically the revenue for a country, okay.
Great and so when the revenue for a country is growing fast,
meaning when the economy is doing well,
then stocks that are industrial like GE or Caterpillar
or Komatsu in Japan, tend to do well.
Okay and then for defensive stocks like Coca Cola
which is somewhat countercyclical,
I wrote that there's no driver for them.
But these stocks tend to outperform
meaning the consumer staples in defensive stocks,
when the economy is not doing well.
So Campbell's Soup for example,
that company and that ticker will outperform
because it's defensive.
You know, you're still gonna eat soup in down markets
'cause you gotta eat.
Soup is good food.
Okay.
All right so that's sector drive.
Okay and again, yellow means please don't touch this.
You can just type here.
Okay so in this case here,
I wrote down what are other drivers.
And I kept this column here for ya to hardcode
meaning to type in your own stuff.
Because not every stock you're investing in
is obviously going to be in the S&P.
And not every stock is gonna have the same drivers.
Not every tech stock.
Okay so you can type them in here, okay.
So, okay that's great.
Now, this here is a one-time catalyst, okay.
So, say we're in the future
and Apple is going to release
iPhone eight million (laughing).
You know what I mean.
Then, that is an important thing to know
because that might cause the stock to go up
when it's announced.
That sort of thing.
Okay, iPhone eight, nine, 10, 11, whatever it is.
iPhone X, okay, you get the idea.
And I wrote here, an example is the Beijing Olympics.
So, when I worked,
I worked at a couple of hedge funds
and I was in New York before the Beijing Olympics.
And my portfolio manager
at one of the hedge funds I worked at said
let's invest in everything that is going to do well
because of the Beijing Olympics.
And what happened was stocks that were,
that had stuff that was used to make stuff
for the Beijing Olympics did well
ahead of the Beijing Olympics
like every commodity company on the planet.
That sort of thing, okay.
And then here, this is just for additional comments
that you might have here.
And we are done discussing sector and stock drivers.
If you have questions on that, please let me know.
Otherwise, in the next lecture we'll talk about
your investment research in section eight.
Thank you.